Full Disc Ripping Guide
=======================

Ripping
-------

* * *

Ripping a full disc, whether a DVD, BD or UHDBD, is the first step for releasing physical content on the web. Physical discs have encryption that must be defeated in order to result in a playable file. The best software\*\* to decrypt physical discs is AnyDVD HD.

To decrypt the BD with AnyDVD HD (only supported by Windows):

1.  Right-click the tray icon and select `Settings`. Make sure the following settings are changed from default:
    *   **Video Blu-ray**:
        *   **Settings**
            *   ☒ Enable blu-ray support
            *   ☒ Remove prohibited user operations
            *   ☒ Remove annoying adverts and trailers
            *   ☐ Remove video sequences shorter than
            *   ☒ Disable BD-Live
            *   ☒ Simulate connected 3D Display
        *   **Blu-ray disc Region**
            *   ☒ Remove Blu-ray Region Code
                *   ☐ Automatic
                *   ☒ Always ask for region code of inherited disc
                *   ☐ Region A
                *   ☐ Region B
                *   ☐ Region C
                *   ☒ Remove Blu-ray country code
2.  Insert the disc.
3.  Verify that the correct region is selected, otherwise the region lock will not be removed.
4.  AnyDVD should automatically decrypt (not rip) the disc.
5.  Right-click the AnyDVD HD tray icon and select `Rip Video Disc to Harddisk` for DVDs or `Rip To Image` for BDs and UHDBDs.
    *   AnyDVD has been known to cause issues ripping directly to BDMV. This is especially common with 3D discs which would otherwise double in size.
    *   Disable the option to create a .dvdid file and/or do not include this file in your release.
6.  Ripped .ISOs must have their BDMV folder extracted by mounting the disc and copying its contents:
    *   On Windows 10:
        1.  Make sure that "Windows Explorer" is set to the default app for .ISO files.
        2.  Right-click the .ISO file, and select "Mount".
        3.  Copy the contents and paste them into a local directory.
    *   Exception: 3D discs must not be extracted otherwise they will cause issues with players.

Naming Conventions
------------------

* * *

Before uploading, place the extracted disc folders from each disc inside a folder named with the following rules. If a release contains multiple discs, each with their own folder, all of these folders must be contained within another folder following the same rules but with `D##` omitted.

Use only the following characters (no spaces): `abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789.-`

The disc folder name should be in the following format: `Name.Year.S##D##.Cut.REPACK.Resolution.Region.Source.HDR.VCodec.ACodec.Channels.Metadata-Tag`

*   **Name**: The production's internationally-recognized name (usually found on IMDB unless it's incorrect).
*   **Geographics** (`AU`, `UK`, `AU`): Only used to disambiguate between content of the same name year.
*   **Year**: Release year according to IMDB. TV content only includes the year if there are two series of the same name
*   **S##D##**: Season and disc number if applicable.
*   **Cut** (If omitted, assumed `Theatrical`, otherwise, e.g.: `Directors.Cut`, `Extended`, `Special.Edition`, `Unrated`, `3D`, `Super.Duper.Cut`)
*   **REPACK**: Only included when you are fixing an error in one of your previous releases of the same source
*   **Resolution** (`480i`, `576i`, `720p`, `1080p`, `1080i`, `2160p`): Video resolution. Omit for DVDs.
*   **Edition** (`XXth Anniversary Edition`, `Remastered`, `4K Remaster`, `Criterion`, `Limited`): Omit from filename and put in description.
*   **Region** (The [ISO 3166-1 alpha-3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-3) code): The disc's release country.
*   **Source** (`NTSC.DVD`, `PAL.DVD`, `HD.DVD`, `Blu-ray`, `UHD.Blu-ray`): Video disc source.
*   **HDR** (If omitted, assumed SDR, otherwise, one of: `HDR` for HDR10, `HDR10Plus`, `DV`, `DV.HDR10Plus` )
*   **VCodec** (One of: `MPEG-2`, `VC-1`, `AVC`, `HEVC`): Video codec. Omit for DVDs.
*   **ACodec** (One of: `DD`, `DD-EX`, `DDP`, `TrueHD`, `DTS`, `DTS-ES`, `DTS-HD.MA`, `DTS-HD.HRA`, `DTS-X`, `FLAC`): Audio codec of the default audio track.
*   **Channels** (One of: `1.0`, `2.0`, `2.1`, `3.0`, `3.1,` `4.0`, `4.1`, `5.0`, `5.1`, `6.1`, `7.1`): Audio channels of the default audio track.
*   **Metadata** (If omitted, assume none exists, otherwise, one of: `Atmos`)
*   **Tag**: The "brand" you want to be known by.
*   Completely your choice (as long as it has not already been claimed).
*   Can be your username if desired.

**Note**: MakeMKV "full backup" should be avoided for full discs you intend on uploading as it does not remove the region code, and does not hide the FBI warnings, trailers and commercials. However, using MakeMKV for "full backup" to decrypt discs for remuxes is acceptable as neither of those flaws matter. Also, note that AnyDVD is known to be more reliable than MakeMKV on a greater variety of discs.

**Note**: Do not delete any additional folders created (e.g. the `ANYDVD` in the root directory). These are required for playback on certain devices.

\*\* DeUHD is a suitable alternative for UHDBDs only. It supports decryption of newly-released UHDBDs faster than AnyDVD HD or MakeMKV provides.